---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts About Building Websites and Using Databases"
modified:
categories: articles
excerpt: "Specific thoughts about what I learned in CPSC 350 and how it changed the way I build websites."
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-04-26T15:39:55-04:00
---


## Re-learning HTML ##
I learned the basics of HTML in another Computer Science course, 348: Web Application Development with Dr. Anewalt last summer. This course introduced me to the basics of how to build a website using HTML, PHP, JavaScript, etc. without this introduction I would have had an even harder time with 350 because that would have meant that I would have to learn HTML too on top of the other languages that were required for this class and my other CPSC classes.
I was a bit rusty in my HTML skills so there was some things that I had to relearn. For example, the code for building a table or italicizing a piece of text.

## Learning Flask ##
I had never used Flask until this course so learning the syntax and how it played a role in web-driven applications was at first challenging but then I got the hang of it.
For the most part, all of the websites that we built in this class was heavily dependent on Flask.

## Learning Python ##
I learned Python in CPSC 110 but when I was coding in this class, it seemed to be something different.
I can't exactly remember Python all that well because its been years since I coded in it but the purpose for using Python changed from the way it was used in 110.

## PostgreSQL vs. mySQL ##
For this class we used PostgreSQL because that is what is given in the Cloud9 IDE and I liked using PostgreSQL for the databases overall even though sometimes it was challenging to code in because I had to try to remember all of the commands for this language.
In this class we learned mySQL from the Head Start textbook. While I thought this was a good textbook, I wish that the class was learning more of PostgreSQL instead of mySQL and having to convert it to PostgreSQL.
I think that we should have been given a cheatsheet of all of the commands in mySQL and went over it as a class and then had a PostgreSQL textbook with a command cheat sheet of all the commands.
I believe that doing something like that I would have had a slightly easier time with learned the two database languages.

Overall PostgreSQL and mySQL are similar in the basic concepts but there are some variations between the two and trying to constantly remember that was challenging but I am glad that I know both languages.



This class taught me about the importance of remembering how to code in all the languages and how it is very important that I understand what each line is doing because otherwise I would be just coding things that would probably not work and can be noticeable because it is on the web.



