---
layout: post
title: "SocketIO Rudiment"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-04-27T13:12:34
---

SocketIO was a project that really tested my abilities as a Web and Database Developer.

## Successes
My successes for this project were:
1. Inserting and retrieving messages from the database.
 * Printing out those messages to the message box on the website.
2. Writing the code for a search bar and results box
 * Even though you had to type in the whole message in order for the search result to appear, that was a great step in getting the search box and results working based on my search box from the Rate My History project!

## Challenges
My challenges for this project were:
1. Trying to get the login working completely.
  * I had the username and password box and it let the person log in but it didn't check to see if the person was in the database.
   * I had a difficult time trying to figure out how to do this. I understood the concept of how it was supposed to work but I struggled to implement it correctly.
2. Printing out the previous messages as soon as the application was running and not when they just logged in.
  * Could this possibly be because of session variables or the way that I was implementing socketio?

## Demonstrating Snippets of Code:

### HTML Code
{% highlight html %}
        <p>Name:
          <input type="text" ng-model="name" ng-change="setName()"   placeholder="Username" size="14" /></p>
         <div class="scroll" id="msgpane">
         <p ng-repeat="msg in messages">
            <b ng-bind="msg.name"></b>&nbsp;
            <span ng-bind="msg.text"></span>
                
              </p>
         
         
         </div>
         
         <form ng-submit="send()">
              
                <input type="text"  ng-model="text" size="30"  placeholder="Type message here">
                <input type="submit" value="Send" ng-disabled="!name">
             
            </form>
<br />
<form ng-submit="searchsend()">
  <h1>Searching</h1>
  <p>Search: <input type="text" ng-model="searchbox" value="" name="searchengine", placeholder="Search" size="14"/><input type="submit" value="Find" /></p>
	<div class="scroll" id="msgpane2">
	 <!-- {% if query == chatmessage['cusername'] %}
		  {% for chatmessage in results %}
		    <p>{{chatmessage[1]}}</p>
		    <p>{{chatmessage[2]}}</p>
		  {% endfor %}
		{% endif %} -->
		<p ng-repeat="srch in searcharray">
            <b ng-bind="srch.name"></b>&nbsp;
            <span ng-bind="srch.text"></span>
                
              </p>
	
	</div>
</form>
{% endhighlight html %}

### JavaScript Code
{% highlight javascript %}
 socket.on('messagepython', function(msg){
        console.log(msg);
        $scope.messages.push(msg);
        $scope.$apply();
        var elem = document.getElementById('msgpane');
        elem.scrollTop = elem.scrollHeight;
     });
     
     $scope.send = function send(){
          console.log('Sending message: ', $scope.text);
          socket.emit('message', $scope.name, $scope.text);
          $scope.text = '';
     }
{% endhighlight javascript %}

### Python Code
{% highlight python %}
@socketio.on('message', namespace='/iss')
def new_message(username, message):
     tmp ={'text': message, 'name': users[session['uuid']]['username']}
     print(tmp)
     
     conn = connectToDB()
     cur = conn.cursor()
    
     print('In messages: ' + message)
   
     try:
        databasemessage = cur.mogrify("""INSERT INTO chatmessage (cusername, cmessage) VALUES (%s, %s);""", (username, message))
        cur.execute(databasemessage)
        tmp ={'text': message, 'name': users[session['uuid']]['username']}
        print(tmp)
        conn.commit()
        emit('messagepython', tmp, broadcast=True)
        
     except Exception, e:
        print(e)
        conn.rollback()
{% endhighlight python %}


## Overall Thoughts About SocketIO
Even though I was only able to complete Part I of this project this project was definitely the most challenging project that I worked on in this class by far.
I had hard time trying to constantly keep track of where the data was being sent to and how it would respond and where that would go to and so on and so forth. It was definitely a challenge to wrap my mind out what was going on. I had some help in understanding how to do this project so I am grateful for that.
I would like to work on this project this summer or after I graduate to see if I can get it working correctly.
If anything, I found out that Google is my best friend and don't be afraid to ask questions and for guidance on a project.


